=head1 NAME

tasknc - a ncurses wrapper around Taskwarrior in C
    by mjheagle

=head1 SYNOPSIS

Usage: I<tasknc> [option] [value]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

tasknc is a ncurses wrapper around the Taskwarrior task manager in C.

=head1 INVOCATION OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-h, --help>

Print the help message

=item B<-v, --version>

Print the version of tasknc

=item B<-d, --debug> I<mode>

Debug mode (no curses gui).  Modes may be specified as a list, as long as they are all in a single argument.  Modes:

=over 4

=item I<all>

=item I<eval_string>

=item I<task_count>

=item I<trim>

=item I<search>

=item I<set_var>

=item

=back

=item B<-f, --filter>

Set an initial filter string

=item B<-l, --loglevel> I<loglvl>

Set log level to I<loglvl>, which must be a non-negative integer.

=back

=head1 DEFAULT KEY BINDS

=over 4

=item B<j/k/arrowkeys>

navigation up and down

=item B<home/g>

go to first task

=item B<end/G>

go to last task

=item B<e>

edit selected task

=item B<r>

reload task list

=item B<u>

run task undo

=item B<d>

delete selected task

=item B<c>

mark selected task as complete

=item B<a>

create a new task

=item B<v/enter>

run task info on selected task

=item B<s>

resort list (prompted for sort order)

=item B<y>

synchronize (run task merge and task push)

=item B<q>

exit tasknc/pager window

=item B</>

search for task

=item B<n>

go to next task result

=item B<f>

filter (prompted for filter string)

=item B<:>

open command prompt

=back

=head1 CONFIGURATION

tasknc honors a config file located at 

    $XDG_CONFIG_HOME/tasknc/config

or, if $XDG_CONFIG_HOME doesnt exist,

    $HOME/.config/tasknc/config

An example config can be found at /usr/share/tasknc/config.

The configuration file contains a series of commands, which follow the format of the commands listed below.

=head1 COMMANDS

Commands are either supplied at the command prompt or listed in the configuration file.  They are used to configure tasknc to behave as you desire.

=over 4

=item B<add> creates a new task and opens it for editing.

=item

=item B<bind> I<mode> I<key> I<function> I<args> assign I<function> to run every time a I<key> is pressed in I<mode>.  Defining I<key>s is described in the KEYS section.  I<function>s are anything listed in COMMANDS.

=item

=item B<color> I<object> I<foreground> I<background> I<rule> assign an I<object> to be a color when I<rule> is satisfied.  Only task I<object>s evaluate I<rule>s.  The following objects are available:

=over 4

=item I<error>  - error messages

=item I<header> - title bar & pager title

=item I<task>   - tasks in task list

=back

=item Colors are specified in one of three formats:

=over 4

=item I<integer> - number of the color you desire, where -1 is default.

=item I<colorNNN> - where NNN is the color you desire in 3 digits.

=item I<color string> - where the following colors are recognized: I<black>, I<red>, I<green>, I<yellow>, I<blue>, I<magenta>, I<cyan>, and I<white>.

=back

=item Rules are specified in the following format: ~I<pattern> I<arg>.  Pattern is a single character; if lowercase it indicates a positive match, and if uppercase it indicates a negative match.  Regular expression arguments must be enclosed in single quotes.  The following patterns are available:

=over 4

=item I<s>         - task is selected

=item I<t>         - task is started

=item I<p> 'I<regex>' - project matches regex

=item I<d> 'I<regex>' - description matches regex

=item I<t> 'I<regex>' - tags match regex

=item I<r> 'I<regex>' - priority matches regex

=back

=item

=item B<command> I<optarg> runs the command I<optarg> or prompts the user for a command with no arg.

=item

=item B<complete> marks selected task as complete

=item

=item B<delete> deletes selected task

=item

=item B<edit> opens task for editing

=item

=item B<dump> will write active task info to the log file.  This is mostly for debugging.

=item

=item B<filter> applies filter string I<optarg> or prompts user for a filter string with no arg.

=item

=item B<f_redraw> force a redraw of theh whole screen.

=item

=item B<help> will open the help window, which will list keybinds.

=item

=item B<modify> I<optarg> runs task modify on the selected task with modifications specified in I<optarg> or gathered from a user prompt with no arg.

=item

=item B<quit> will exit tasknc.

=item

=item B<reload> will force tasknc to re-import the task list.

=item

=item B<scroll_down> moves the cursor down

=item

=item B<scroll_end> moves the cursor to the end of the task list

=item

=item B<scroll_home> moves the cursor to the first task

=item

=item B<scroll_up> moves the cursor up

=item

=item B<search> I<optarg> searches task list for string I<optarg> or prompts user for a search string with no arg.

=item

=item B<search_next> goes to the next item in the task list that matches the search string.

=item

=item B<set> I<variable> I<value> will attempt to set I<variable> to a parsed I<value>.  A list of available I<variable>s are listed in the VARIABLES section.

=item

=item B<shell> I<command> will run an interactive command.  A %s will be replaced with the active task's uuid.  The task list will be reloaded after.

=item

=item B<shell_bg> I<command> will run a background command.  A %s will be replaced with the active task's uuid.  The task list will be reloaded after.

=item

=item B<show> I<variable> will print the formatted contents of I<variable> to either stdout or the prompt area of the ncurses window.

=item

=item B<sort> I<optarg> applies a sort defined by string I<optarg> or prompts user for sort mode with no arg.  The sort string defines the priority of each sort component.  Tasks will first be compared by the first character's order, if they are equal, the next characters sort order will be evaluated.  The default sort order is due, priority, project, uuid (notated drpu).  Capitalized characters indicate invert the sort for that field.  The following characters are valid sorts:

=over 4

=item I<d> due

=item I<n> index

=item I<p> project

=item I<r> priority

=item I<u> uuid

=back

=item

=item B<source> I<file> read configuration file and run commands that are contained in it.

=item

=item B<source_cmd> I<command> run a command and read commands from its output.

=item

=item B<stats> will display the output of 'task stat'.

=item

=item B<sync> runs 'task merge && task push'.

=item

=item B<toggle_start> toggles the task's status as started or stopped.

=item

=item B<unbind> I<mode> I<key> will remove all keybindings from a specific I<key> in I<mode>.

=item

=item B<undo> runs 'task undo'.

=item

=item B<version> will print the version info about tasknc to the prompt area of the ncurses window.

=item

=item B<view> will open the view window for the selected task.

=back

=head1 VARIABLES

=over 4

=item B<curs_timeout> is an integer variable which is the number of milliseconds after which ncurses options should time out.  (default: 500)

=item

=item B<filter_string> is the string which is currently filtering the displayed task list.  (default: status:pending)

=item

=item B<follow_task> is a boolean which dictates whether the selected line will stay selected after the task is chenaged.  (default: 1)

=item

=item B<history_max> is an integer variable which defines the maximum number of history entries for a given prompt.  This variable should not be set from the interactive command line.  (default: 50)

=item

=item B<log_level> is an integer variable which defines which log messages should be printed.  All messages at or below the log level are printed and written to file.  (default: 1)

=item

Log levels:

=over 4

=item I<0> Default messages

=item I<1> Error messages

=item I<2> Warning messages

=item I<3> Informative messages

=item I<4> Debug messages

=item I<5> Verbose debug messages

=item

=back

=item B<program_name> is the string which defines the name of the program.

=item

=item B<program_author> is the string which defines the author of tasknc.

=item

=item B<program_version> is the string which defines the version of tasknc.

=item

=item B<search_string> is the string that is currently being searched for.  (default: NULL)

=item

=item B<selected_line> is the integer number of the task which is currently selected.

=item

=item B<sort_mode> is a character which defines the sort mode.  (default: drpu)

Sort modes:

=over 4

=item I<d> due date

=item I<n> index

=item I<p> project name

=item I<r> priority

=item

=back

=item B<statusbar_timeout> is an integer variable which is the number of seconds after which the message in the statusbar times out.  (default: 3)

=item

=item B<task_count> is the integer number of tasks which are displayed.

=item

=item B<task_format> is the string which defines the format of a displayed task.  See FORMATS for more information.  (default: " $project $description $> ?$due?$due?$-6priority?")

=item

=item B<task_version> is a string variable which contains the version of Taskwarrior which is being wrapped.

=item

=item B<title_format> is the string which defines the format of the title bar.  See FORMATS for more information.  (default: " $program_name ($selected_line/$task_count) $> $date")

=item

=item B<view_format> is the string which defines the format of the title bar of the pager when viewing a task.  See FORMATS for more information.  (default: " task info")

=item

=back

=head1 FORMATS

Formats describe how a line is printed.  Variables are denoted by a preceding $.  The variables listed in the VARIABLES section are all available.  If you would like whitespace at the beginning or end of the string, enclose it in double quotes.  Field length can be specified by a positive integer between the variable indicator ($) and the variable name.  The following additional variables are also available:

=over 4

=item B<date> displays the current date.

=item

=item B<E<gt>> marks the beginning of the right-aligned portion of the formatted section.

=back

For task formats, the following variables are available:

=over 4

=item B<description>

=item

=item B<due>

=item

=item B<project>

=item

=back

=head1 MODES

=over 4

=item B<tasklist>

=item

=item B<pager>

=item

=back

=head1 KEYS

Keys may be specified as an integer or character. In addition, special key strings are recognized.  HWhen pressing an unbound key, tasknc will display its name in the statusbar message.

=head1 AUTHOR

mjheagle E<lt>mjheagle8@gmail.comE<gt>

=head1 SEE ALSO

B<task(1)>
